---
title: Convert XLT to HTML via C++ application 
url: /cpp/conversion/xlt-to-html/ 
description: Sample C++ conversion code for XLT document to HTML format. Programmers can use this source code for batch XLT to HTML conversion within any C++ Application.
---

{{< blocks/products/pf/main-wrap-class isAutogenPage="true">}}
{{< blocks/products/pf/upper-banner h1="Convert XLT to HTML via C++" h2="High performance XLT to HTML conversion using C++ library without the need of Microsoft Excel, OpenOffice or Adobe Acrobat installation." logoImageSrc="https://www.aspose.cloud/templates/aspose/img/products/cells/aspose_cells-for-cpp.svg" sourceAdditionalConversionTag="" additionalConversionTag="HTML" pfName="" subTitlepfName="" downloadUrl="" fileiconsmall1="DOCX" fileiconsmall2="JPG" fileiconsmall3="PDF" fileiconsmall4="XML" fileiconsmall5="XLT" >}}

{{< blocks/products/pf/main-container pfName="Aspose.Cells " subTitlepfName="for C++" >}}
{{< blocks/products/pf/sub-menu autoGeneratedVersion="true" logoImageSrc="https://www.aspose.cloud/templates/aspose/img/products/cells/aspose_cells-for-cpp.svg" apiHomeLink="" codeSamplesLink="https://github.com/aspose-cells" liveDemosLink="https://products.aspose.app/cells/family" docsLink="https://docs.aspose.com/cells/cpp" installationsDocsLink="https://docs.aspose.com/cells/cpp" nugetLink="https://www.nuget.org/packages/aspose.cells" nugetPackageName="" downloadAsLink="https://downloads.aspose.com/cells/cpp" learnAsLink="https://docs.aspose.com/cells/cpp" apiReference="" mavenRepoLink="" >}}

{{% blocks/products/pf/agp/content h2="How to Convert XLT to HTML Using C++" %}}

 In order to convert XLT to HTML, we’ll use
 [Aspose.Cells for C++](https://products.aspose.com/cells/cpp) 
 API which is a feature-rich, powerful and easy to use document manipulation and conversion API for C++ platform. You can download its latest version directly, just open
 [NuGet](https://www.nuget.org/packages/aspose.cells) 
 package manager, search for
 Aspose.Cells.Cpp 
 and install. You may also use the following command from the Package Manager Console.

{{% blocks/products/pf/agp/code-block title="Command" offSpacer="true" %}}

```cs

PM> Install-Package Aspose.Cells.Cpp

```

{{% /blocks/products/pf/agp/code-block %}}

{{% /blocks/products/pf/agp/content %}}

{{< blocks/products/pf/agp/feature-section isGrey="true" >}}

{{% blocks/products/pf/agp/feature-section-col title="Steps to Convert XLT to HTML via C++" %}}

{{% blocks/products/pf/agp/text %}}

 C++ developers can easily convert XLT file to HTML in just a few lines of code.

{{% /blocks/products/pf/agp/text %}}

1. Load XLT file using Factory::CreateIWorkbook.
1. Call the Save() method.
1. Pass the output file path with (HTML) file extension.
1. HTML file will be saved at the specified path.
1. Open HTML file in compatible program.


{{% /blocks/products/pf/agp/feature-section-col %}}

{{% blocks/products/pf/agp/feature-section-col title="System Requirements" %}}

{{% blocks/products/pf/agp/text %}}

 Before running the C++ conversion sample code, make sure that you have the following prerequisites.

{{% /blocks/products/pf/agp/text %}}

- Microsoft Windows or a compatible OS with C++ Runtime Environment for Windows 32 bit, Windows 64 bit and Linux 64 bit.
- Aspose.Cells for C++ DLL referenced in your project.

-  Microsoft Windows or a compatible OS with C++ Runtime Environment for Windows 32 bit, Windows 64 bit and Linux 64 bit.
-  Aspose.Cells for C++ DLL referenced in your project.

{{% /blocks/products/pf/agp/feature-section-col %}}

{{% blocks/products/pf/agp/code-block title="XLT to HTML C++ Conversion Source Code" offSpacer="" %}}

```cs
// Load the XLT.
intrusive_ptr<Aspose::Cells::IWorkbook> wkb = Factory::CreateIWorkbook(u"sourceFile.xlt");

// Save in HTML format.
wkb->Save(u"convertedFile.html", SaveFormat_Html);

```

{{% /blocks/products/pf/agp/code-block %}}

{{< /blocks/products/pf/agp/feature-section >}}

    {{< blocks/products/pf/agp/faq-item question="" answer="" >}}
 

<!-- aboutfile Starts -->

{{< blocks/products/pf/agp/demobox sectionTitle="XLT to HTML Conversion Live Demos" sectionDescription="[Convert XLT to HTML](https://products.aspose.app/cells/conversion/xlt-to-html) right now by visiting our Live Demos website.The live demo has the following benefits" >}}
        {{< blocks/products/pf/agp/democard icon="fa-cogs" text=" No need to download Aspose API." >}}
        {{< blocks/products/pf/agp/democard icon="fa-edit" text=" No need to write any code." >}}
        {{< blocks/products/pf/agp/democard icon="fa-file-text" text=" Just upload your XLT file, it will be converted instantly to HTML." >}}
        {{< blocks/products/pf/agp/democard icon="fa-download" text=" You will get the download link." >}}

    {{% blocks/products/pf/agp/content h2="C++ Excel File Manipulation Library" %}}

 Excel API can be used to create, edit, convert and render Microsoft Excel formats to different formats. Moreover, it can be used for comprehensive charting, scalable reporting and reliable calculations within software applications. Aspose.Cells is a standalone API and it does not require any software like Microsoft or OpenOffice.  



    {{% /blocks/products/pf/agp/content %}}

    {{< blocks/products/pf/agp/about-file-section >}}

        {{< blocks/products/pf/agp/about-file-text fileFormat="XLT" readMoreLink="https://docs.fileformat.com/spreadsheet/xlt/" >}}

Files with .XLT extension are template files created with Microsoft Excel which is a spreadsheet application which comes as part of Microsoft Office suite.  Microsoft Office 97-2003 supported creating new XLT files as well as opening these. The latest version of Excel is still capable of opening this old format template files. Such a template file is used to quickly create new Excel files with default data and settings such as page formatting, font size, margins, charts, etc which can be further saved as new .XLS files.

        {{< /blocks/products/pf/agp/about-file-text >}}

        {{< blocks/products/pf/agp/about-file-text fileFormat="HTML" readMoreLink="https://docs.fileformat.com/web/html/" >}}

HTML (Hyper Text Markup Language) is the extension for web pages created for display in browsers. Known as language of the web, HTML has evolved with requirements of new information requirements to be displayed as part of web pages. The latest variant is known as HTML 5 that gives a lot of flexibility for working with the language. HTML pages are either received from server, where these are hosted, or can be loaded from local system as well. Each HTML page is made up of HTML elements such as forms, text, images, animations, links, etc. These elements are represented by tags such as img, a, p and several others where each tag has start and end. It can also embed applications written in scripting languages such as JavaScript and Style Sheets (CSS) for overall layout representation.

        {{< /blocks/products/pf/agp/about-file-text >}}

    {{< /blocks/products/pf/agp/about-file-section >}}

{{< /blocks/products/pf/agp/demobox >}}

<!-- aboutfile Ends -->



{{< /blocks/products/pf/main-container >}}
    
{{< /blocks/products/pf/main-wrap-class >}}